README.md, before:

## Tomaka17's lua wrapper

### What is this library?
This lua wrapper for C++ is a library which allows you to easily manage lua code. It was designed to be as simple as possible to use.

### Why this library?
You may wonder why I chose to create my own library while there as so many other libraries available. Well, none of them 100 % satisfied me.

Some are just basic wrappers (with functions to directly manipulate the stack), some others use an external executable to compute the list of functions of a class, and some others are just too complicated to use.

This library was designed to be very simple to use: you can write lua variables (with either a number, a string, a function, an array or a smart pointer to an object), read lua variables, call functions stored in lua variables, and of course execute lua code. That's all.

### How to use it?
This is a headers-only library.
Simply include the file `include/LuaContext.hpp` in your code, and you can use the `LuaContext` class.
You can also just copy-paste it into your own source code if you don't want to modify your include paths.

The `include/misc/exception.hpp` file is required only for VC++.

All the files outside of the `include` directory are only for testing purposes and can be ignored.

### Why should I use it?
* very easy to use
* no macros (we are in the 21st century!)
* no external program to run on your source code
* not intrusive, you don't need to change the layout of your functions or classes
* you aren't forced to use object-oriented code
* portable (doesn't use anything that is compiler-specific or platform-specific)
* can do everything other libraries can do

### Why should I not use it?
* requires support for [C++11](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11), the latest C++ standard
* requires [Boost](http://boost.org) (headers only)
* inheritance not supported (and won't be supported until some reflection is added to the C++ language)

### I have the old (2010) version of your library, what did change?
* you need an up-to-date compiler now
* you now need some headers-only libraries from [Boost](http://boost.org)
* breaking change: `LuaContext` is no longer in the `Lua` namespace
* breaking change: you can't pass directly lambdas to `writeVariable` anymore, use `writeFunction` instead or convert them to `std::function`
* breaking change: the functions `clearVariable`, `doesVariableExist`, `writeEmptyArray` and `callLuaFunction` no longer exist, but you can reproduce their effect with `writeVariable` and `readVariable`
* a lot of features have been added: lua arrays, polymorphic functions, etc.
* the implementation is really a lot cleaner, and probably faster and with less bugs

### Documentation
All the examples below are in C++, except the parameter passed to `executeCode` which is Lua code.

#### Reading and writing variables

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("x", 5);
    lua.executeCode("x = x + 2;");
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<int>("x") << std::endl;

Prints `7`.

All basic language types (`int`, `float`, `bool`, `char`, ...), plus `std::string`, can be read or written. `enum`s can also be read or written but are turned into numbers.

An exception is thrown if you try to read a value of the wrong type or if you try to read a non-existing variable.
If you don't know the type of a variable in advance, you can read a `boost::variant`. If you want to read a variable but don't know whether it exists, you can read a `boost::optional`. More informations about this below.

#### Writing functions

    void show(int value) {
        std::cout << value << std::endl;
    }

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("show", &show);
    lua.executeCode("show(5);");
    lua.executeCode("show(7);");

Prints `5` and `7`.

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("show", std::function<void (int)>{[](int v) { std::cout << v << std::endl; }});
    lua.executeCode("show(3);");
    lua.executeCode("show(8);");

Prints `3` and `8`.

`writeVariable` supports both `std::function` and native function pointers or references.
The function's parameters and return type are handled as if they were read and written by `readVariable` and `writeVariable`.

If you pass a function object with a single operator(), you can also auto-detect the function type using `writeFunction`:

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeFunction("show", [](int v) { std::cout << v << std::endl; });


#### Writing custom types

    class Object {
    public:
     Object() : value(10) {}
     
     void  increment() { std::cout << "incrementing" << std::endl; value++; } 
     
     int value;
    };
    
    LuaContext lua;
    lua.registerFunction("increment", &Object::increment);
    
    lua.writeVariable("obj", Object{});
    lua.executeCode("obj:increment();");

    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Object>("obj").value << std::endl;

Prints `incrementing` and `11`.

In addition to basic types and functions, you can pass any object to `writeVariable`.
The object will then be copied into Lua by calling its copy constructor.

If you want to call an object's member function, you must register it with `registerFunction`, just like in the example above.
It doesn't matter whether you call `registerFunction` before or after writing the objects, it works in both cases.

`readVariable` can also be used to read a copy of the object.

If you don't want to manipulate copies, you should write and read pointers instead of plain objects. Raw pointers, `unique_ptr`s and `shared_ptr`s are also supported.
Functions that have been registered for a type also work with all pointers to this type.

Note however that inheritance is not supported.
You need to register all of a type's functions, even if you have already registered a type's parent's functions.


#### Reading lua code from a file

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.executeCode(std::ifstream{"script.lua"});

This simple example shows that you can easily read lua code (including pre-compiled) from a file.

If you write your own derivate of std::istream (for example a decompressor), you can of course also use it.
Note however that `executeCode` will block until it reaches eof. You should take care if you use a custom derivate of std::istream which awaits for data.


#### Executing lua functions

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.executeCode("foo = function(i) return i + 2 end");

    const auto function = lua.readVariable<std::function<int (int)>>("foo");
    std::cout << function(3) << std::endl;

Prints `5`.

`readVariable` also supports `std::function`. This allows you to read any function, even the functions created by lua.

The only types that are supported by `writeVariable` but not by `readVariable` are native function pointers and `unique_ptr`s, for obvious reasons.

**Warning**: calling the function after the LuaContext has been destroyed leads to undefined behavior (and likely to a crash).


#### Polymorphic functions

If you want to read a value but don't know in advance whether it is of type A or type B, `writeVariable` and `readVariable` also support `boost::variant`.

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](boost::variant<std::string,bool> value)
        {
            if (value.which() == 0) {
                std::cout << "Value is a string: " << boost::get<std::string>(value);
            } else {
                std::cout << "Value is a bool: " << boost::get<bool>(value);
            }
        }
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(\"hello\")");
    lua.executeCode("foo(true)");

Prints `Value is a string: hello` and `Value is a bool: true`.

See the documentation of [`boost::variant`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/doc/html/variant.html).


#### Variadic-like functions

If you want functions that take a varying number of parameters, you can have some parameters as `boost::optional`s.

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](int param1, boost::optional<int> param2, boost::optional<int> param3)
        {
            if (param3) {
                std::cout << "3 parameters" << std::endl;
            } else if (param2) {
                std::cout << "2 parameters" << std::endl;
            } else {
                std::cout << "1 parameter" << std::endl;
            }
        }
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(7)");
    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7)");
    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7, 7)");

Just like C/C++ functions with default parameter values, you have to put the `boost::optional`s at the end of the parameters list.

This means that for example:

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](boost::optional<int> param1, int param2) {}
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7)");

This code will trigger an `ExecutionErrorException` because the `foo` function requires at least two parameters.


#### Handling lua arrays

`writeVariable` and `readVariable` support `std::vector` of `std::pair`s, `std::map` and `std::unordered_map`.
This allows you to read and write arrays. Combined with `boost::variant`, this allows you to write real polymorphic arrays.

If you have a `std::vector` which contains `std::pair`s, it will be considered as an associative array, where the first member of the pair is the key and the second member is the value.
    
    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeVariable("a",
        std::vector< std::pair< boost::variant<int,std::string>, boost::variant<bool,float> > >
        {
            { "test", true },
            { 2, 6.4f },
            { "hello", 1.f },
            { "world", -7.6f },
            { 18, false }
        }
    );

    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return a.test") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<float>("return a[2]") << std::endl;

Prints `true` and `6.4`.

You can also use `readVariable` and `writeVariable` to directly read or write inside an array.
    
    std::cout << lua.readVariable("a", "test") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.readVariable("a", 2) << std::endl;
    
You can also write an empty array, like this:

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("a", LuaEmptyArray);

Remember that you can create recursive variants, so you can read arrays which contain arrays which contain arrays, and so forth.

    typedef typename boost::make_recursive_variant
        <
            std::string,
            double,
            bool,
            std::vector<std::pair<
                boost::variant<std::string,double,bool>,
                boost::recursive_variant_
            >>
        >::type
            AnyValue;

    lua.readVariable<AnyValue>("something");

This `AnyValue` can store any lua value, except functions and custom objects.

#### Returning multiple values

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeFunction("f1", [](int a, int b, int c) { return std::make_tuple(a + b + c, "test"); });

    lua.executeCode("a, b = f1(1, 2, 3);");
    
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<int>("a") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<std::string>("b") << std::endl;

Prints `6` and `test`.

Lua supports functions that return multiple values at once. A C++ function can do so by returning a tuple.
In this example we return at the same time an int and a string.

#### Destroying a lua variable

    LuaContext lua;
    
    lua.writeVariable("a", 2);

    lua.writeVariable("a", nullptr);        // destroys a

The C++ equivalent for `nil` is `nullptr`.


#### Custom member functions

In example 3, we saw that you can register functions for a given type with `registerFunction`.

But you can also register functions that don't exist in the class.
To do so, you need to pass as template parameter a pointer-to-member-function type, and as
parameter a function or function object that takes as first parameter a reference to the object.

    struct Foo { int value; };

    LuaContext lua;
    
    lua.registerFunction<void (Foo::*)(int)>("add", [](Foo& object, int num) { object.value += num; });

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{5});
    lua.executeCode("a:add(3)");

    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Foo>("a").value;  // 8

There is an alternative syntax if you want to register a function for a pointer type, because it is illegal to write `void (Foo*::*)(int)`.

    lua.registerFunction<Foo, void (int)>("add", [](Foo& object, int num) { object.value += num; });


#### Member objects and custom member objects

You can also register member variables for objects.

    struct Foo { int value; };

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.registerMember("value", &Foo::value);

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{});

    lua.executeCode("a.value = 14");
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Foo>("a").value;  // 14

Just like `registerFunction`, you can register virtual member variables.

The second parameter is a function or function object that is called in order to read the value of the variable.
The third parameter is a function or function object that is called in order to write the value. The third parameter is optional.
    
    lua.registerMember<bool (Foo::*)>("higher_than_five",
        [](Foo& object) -> bool { return object.value >= 5; },
        [](Foo& object, bool higher_than_five) {
            // called when lua code wants to modify the variable
            if (higher_than_five) object.value = 6;
            else object.value = 4;
        }
    );

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{8});
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return a.higher_than_five");    // true

    lua.writeVariable("b", Foo{1});
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return b.higher_than_five");    // false

The alternative syntax also exists.

    lua.registerMember<Foo, bool>("higher_than_five", ...same as above...);

Finally you can register functions that will be called when a non-existing variable is read or written.
The syntax is the same than above, except that you don't pass the name of the variable and that the read and write functions take an extra `name` parameter.
    
    lua.registerMember<boost::variant<int,bool> (Foo::*)>(
        [](Foo& object, const std::string& memberName) -> boost::variant<int,bool> {
            if (memberName == "value")
                return object.value;
            else
                return false;
        },
        [](Foo& object, const std::string& memberName, boost::variant<int,bool> value) {
            if (memberName == "value")
                object.value = boost::get<int>(value);
        }
    );


#### Exception safety

You can safely throw exceptions from inside functions called by Lua.
They are considered as errors by Lua, and if not handled they will be propagated outside.

    lua.writeFunction("test", []() { throw std::runtime_error("Problem"); });
    
    try {
        lua.executeCode("test()");
    } catch(const std::runtime_error& e) {
        std::cout << e.what() << std::endl;     // prints "Problem"
    }


### Compilation
This code uses new functionalities from [C++11](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11).

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/Tomaka17/luawrapper.png)](http://travis-ci.org/Tomaka17/luawrapper)

Does it compile on:
  * Visual C++ 2012 or below: no
  * Visual C++ 2013: yes
  * gcc 4.7.2: doesn't always compile because of known bug in the compiler
  * gcc 4.8.1: yes
  * clang 3.2: yes

Commit message:

A Lua error is now triggerd in case of wrong param type
Before an exception was triggered instead

README.md, after:

## Tomaka17's lua wrapper

### What is this library?
This lua wrapper for C++ is a library which allows you to easily manage lua code. It was designed to be as simple as possible to use.

### Why this library?
You may wonder why I chose to create my own library while there as so many other libraries available. Well, none of them 100 % satisfied me.

Some are just basic wrappers (with functions to directly manipulate the stack), some others use an external executable to compute the list of functions of a class, and some others are just too complicated to use.

This library was designed to be very simple to use: you can write lua variables (with either a number, a string, a function, an array or a smart pointer to an object), read lua variables, call functions stored in lua variables, and of course execute lua code. That's all.

### How to use it?
This is a headers-only library.
Simply include the file `include/LuaContext.hpp` in your code, and you can use the `LuaContext` class.
You can also just copy-paste it into your own source code if you don't want to modify your include paths.

The `include/misc/exception.hpp` file is required only for VC++.

All the files outside of the `include` directory are only for testing purposes and can be ignored.

### Why should I use it?
* very easy to use
* no macros (we are in the 21st century!)
* no external program to run on your source code
* not intrusive, you don't need to change the layout of your functions or classes
* you aren't forced to use object-oriented code
* portable (doesn't use anything that is compiler-specific or platform-specific)
* can do everything other libraries can do

### Why should I not use it?
* requires support for [C++11](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11), the latest C++ standard
* requires [Boost](http://boost.org) (headers only)
* inheritance not supported (and won't be supported until some reflection is added to the C++ language)

### I have the old (2010) version of your library, what did change?
* you need an up-to-date compiler now
* you now need some headers-only libraries from [Boost](http://boost.org)
* breaking change: `LuaContext` is no longer in the `Lua` namespace
* breaking change: you can't pass directly lambdas to `writeVariable` anymore, use `writeFunction` instead or convert them to `std::function`
* breaking change: the functions `clearVariable`, `doesVariableExist`, `writeEmptyArray` and `callLuaFunction` no longer exist, but you can reproduce their effect with `writeVariable` and `readVariable`
* a lot of features have been added: lua arrays, polymorphic functions, etc.
* the implementation is really a lot cleaner, and probably faster and with less bugs

### Documentation
All the examples below are in C++, except the parameter passed to `executeCode` which is Lua code.

#### Reading and writing variables

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("x", 5);
    lua.executeCode("x = x + 2;");
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<int>("x") << std::endl;

Prints `7`.

All basic language types (`int`, `float`, `bool`, `char`, ...), plus `std::string`, can be read or written. `enum`s can also be read or written but are turned into numbers.

An exception is thrown if you try to read a value of the wrong type or if you try to read a non-existing variable.
If you don't know the type of a variable in advance, you can read a `boost::variant`. If you want to read a variable but don't know whether it exists, you can read a `boost::optional`. More informations about this below.

#### Writing functions

    void show(int value) {
        std::cout << value << std::endl;
    }

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("show", &show);
    lua.executeCode("show(5);");
    lua.executeCode("show(7);");

Prints `5` and `7`.

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("show", std::function<void (int)>{[](int v) { std::cout << v << std::endl; }});
    lua.executeCode("show(3);");
    lua.executeCode("show(8);");

Prints `3` and `8`.

`writeVariable` supports both `std::function` and native function pointers or references.

The function's parameters and return type are handled as if they were read and written by `readVariable` and `writeVariable`.
If there are not enough parameters or if parameters are of the wrong type, then a Lua error is triggered.

If you pass a function object with a single operator(), you can also auto-detect the function type using `writeFunction`:

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeFunction("show", [](int v) { std::cout << v << std::endl; });


#### Writing custom types

    class Object {
    public:
     Object() : value(10) {}
     
     void  increment() { std::cout << "incrementing" << std::endl; value++; } 
     
     int value;
    };
    
    LuaContext lua;
    lua.registerFunction("increment", &Object::increment);
    
    lua.writeVariable("obj", Object{});
    lua.executeCode("obj:increment();");

    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Object>("obj").value << std::endl;

Prints `incrementing` and `11`.

In addition to basic types and functions, you can pass any object to `writeVariable`.
The object will then be copied into Lua by calling its copy constructor.

If you want to call an object's member function, you must register it with `registerFunction`, just like in the example above.
It doesn't matter whether you call `registerFunction` before or after writing the objects, it works in both cases.

`readVariable` can also be used to read a copy of the object.

If you don't want to manipulate copies, you should write and read pointers instead of plain objects. Raw pointers, `unique_ptr`s and `shared_ptr`s are also supported.
Functions that have been registered for a type also work with all pointers to this type.

Note however that inheritance is not supported.
You need to register all of a type's functions, even if you have already registered a type's parent's functions.


#### Reading lua code from a file

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.executeCode(std::ifstream{"script.lua"});

This simple example shows that you can easily read lua code (including pre-compiled) from a file.

If you write your own derivate of std::istream (for example a decompressor), you can of course also use it.
Note however that `executeCode` will block until it reaches eof. You should take care if you use a custom derivate of std::istream which awaits for data.


#### Executing lua functions

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.executeCode("foo = function(i) return i + 2 end");

    const auto function = lua.readVariable<std::function<int (int)>>("foo");
    std::cout << function(3) << std::endl;

Prints `5`.

`readVariable` also supports `std::function`. This allows you to read any function, even the functions created by lua.

The only types that are supported by `writeVariable` but not by `readVariable` are native function pointers and `unique_ptr`s, for obvious reasons.

**Warning**: calling the function after the LuaContext has been destroyed leads to undefined behavior (and likely to a crash).


#### Polymorphic functions

If you want to read a value but don't know in advance whether it is of type A or type B, `writeVariable` and `readVariable` also support `boost::variant`.

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](boost::variant<std::string,bool> value)
        {
            if (value.which() == 0) {
                std::cout << "Value is a string: " << boost::get<std::string>(value);
            } else {
                std::cout << "Value is a bool: " << boost::get<bool>(value);
            }
        }
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(\"hello\")");
    lua.executeCode("foo(true)");

Prints `Value is a string: hello` and `Value is a bool: true`.

See the documentation of [`boost::variant`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/doc/html/variant.html).


#### Variadic-like functions

If you want functions that take a varying number of parameters, you can have some parameters as `boost::optional`s.

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](int param1, boost::optional<int> param2, boost::optional<int> param3)
        {
            if (param3) {
                std::cout << "3 parameters" << std::endl;
            } else if (param2) {
                std::cout << "2 parameters" << std::endl;
            } else {
                std::cout << "1 parameter" << std::endl;
            }
        }
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(7)");
    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7)");
    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7, 7)");

Just like C/C++ functions with default parameter values, you have to put the `boost::optional`s at the end of the parameters list.

This means that for example:

    lua.writeFunction("foo", 
        [](boost::optional<int> param1, int param2) {}
    );

    lua.executeCode("foo(7, 7)");

This code will trigger an `ExecutionErrorException` because the `foo` function requires at least two parameters.


#### Handling lua arrays

`writeVariable` and `readVariable` support `std::vector` of `std::pair`s, `std::map` and `std::unordered_map`.
This allows you to read and write arrays. Combined with `boost::variant`, this allows you to write real polymorphic arrays.

If you have a `std::vector` which contains `std::pair`s, it will be considered as an associative array, where the first member of the pair is the key and the second member is the value.
    
    LuaContext lua;

    lua.writeVariable("a",
        std::vector< std::pair< boost::variant<int,std::string>, boost::variant<bool,float> > >
        {
            { "test", true },
            { 2, 6.4f },
            { "hello", 1.f },
            { "world", -7.6f },
            { 18, false }
        }
    );

    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return a.test") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<float>("return a[2]") << std::endl;

Prints `true` and `6.4`.

You can also use `readVariable` and `writeVariable` to directly read or write inside an array.
    
    std::cout << lua.readVariable("a", "test") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.readVariable("a", 2) << std::endl;
    
You can also write an empty array, like this:

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeVariable("a", LuaEmptyArray);

Remember that you can create recursive variants, so you can read arrays which contain arrays which contain arrays, and so forth.

    typedef typename boost::make_recursive_variant
        <
            std::string,
            double,
            bool,
            std::vector<std::pair<
                boost::variant<std::string,double,bool>,
                boost::recursive_variant_
            >>
        >::type
            AnyValue;

    lua.readVariable<AnyValue>("something");

This `AnyValue` can store any lua value, except functions and custom objects.

#### Returning multiple values

    LuaContext lua;
    lua.writeFunction("f1", [](int a, int b, int c) { return std::make_tuple(a + b + c, "test"); });

    lua.executeCode("a, b = f1(1, 2, 3);");
    
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<int>("a") << std::endl;
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<std::string>("b") << std::endl;

Prints `6` and `test`.

Lua supports functions that return multiple values at once. A C++ function can do so by returning a tuple.
In this example we return at the same time an int and a string.

#### Destroying a lua variable

    LuaContext lua;
    
    lua.writeVariable("a", 2);

    lua.writeVariable("a", nullptr);        // destroys a

The C++ equivalent for `nil` is `nullptr`.


#### Custom member functions

In example 3, we saw that you can register functions for a given type with `registerFunction`.

But you can also register functions that don't exist in the class.
To do so, you need to pass as template parameter a pointer-to-member-function type, and as
parameter a function or function object that takes as first parameter a reference to the object.

    struct Foo { int value; };

    LuaContext lua;
    
    lua.registerFunction<void (Foo::*)(int)>("add", [](Foo& object, int num) { object.value += num; });

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{5});
    lua.executeCode("a:add(3)");

    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Foo>("a").value;  // 8

There is an alternative syntax if you want to register a function for a pointer type, because it is illegal to write `void (Foo*::*)(int)`.

    lua.registerFunction<Foo, void (int)>("add", [](Foo& object, int num) { object.value += num; });


#### Member objects and custom member objects

You can also register member variables for objects.

    struct Foo { int value; };

    LuaContext lua;

    lua.registerMember("value", &Foo::value);

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{});

    lua.executeCode("a.value = 14");
    std::cout << lua.readVariable<Foo>("a").value;  // 14

Just like `registerFunction`, you can register virtual member variables.

The second parameter is a function or function object that is called in order to read the value of the variable.
The third parameter is a function or function object that is called in order to write the value. The third parameter is optional.
    
    lua.registerMember<bool (Foo::*)>("higher_than_five",
        [](Foo& object) -> bool { return object.value >= 5; },
        [](Foo& object, bool higher_than_five) {
            // called when lua code wants to modify the variable
            if (higher_than_five) object.value = 6;
            else object.value = 4;
        }
    );

    lua.writeVariable("a", Foo{8});
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return a.higher_than_five");    // true

    lua.writeVariable("b", Foo{1});
    std::cout << lua.executeCode<bool>("return b.higher_than_five");    // false

The alternative syntax also exists.

    lua.registerMember<Foo, bool>("higher_than_five", ...same as above...);

Finally you can register functions that will be called when a non-existing variable is read or written.
The syntax is the same than above, except that you don't pass the name of the variable and that the read and write functions take an extra `name` parameter.
    
    lua.registerMember<boost::variant<int,bool> (Foo::*)>(
        [](Foo& object, const std::string& memberName) -> boost::variant<int,bool> {
            if (memberName == "value")
                return object.value;
            else
                return false;
        },
        [](Foo& object, const std::string& memberName, boost::variant<int,bool> value) {
            if (memberName == "value")
                object.value = boost::get<int>(value);
        }
    );


#### Exception safety

You can safely throw exceptions from inside functions called by Lua.
They are considered as errors by Lua, and if not handled they will be propagated outside.

    lua.writeFunction("test", []() { throw std::runtime_error("Problem"); });
    
    try {
        lua.executeCode("test()");
    } catch(const std::runtime_error& e) {
        std::cout << e.what() << std::endl;     // prints "Problem"
    }


### Compilation
This code uses new functionalities from [C++11](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11).

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/Tomaka17/luawrapper.png)](http://travis-ci.org/Tomaka17/luawrapper)

Does it compile on:
  * Visual C++ 2012 or below: no
  * Visual C++ 2013: yes
  * gcc 4.7.2: doesn't always compile because of known bug in the compiler
  * gcc 4.8.1: yes
  * clang 3.2: yes
